README.md, before:

SDRecord
====

Tool for audio recording with SDR, tested to work with Gqrx: https://github.com/csete/gqrx

It can also be used with others SDR software that send packets with streaming audio over UDP.

SDRecord drops UDP packets coming from Gqrx that do not contain any relevant data ( data payload is 0 ) and sends in output ( on stdout or to a file and/or to a remote host ) only packets containing info.

**Thus this audio recorder is able to reduce network traffic, disk space needed for records and in plus can record for X specified minutes and/or for X specified MBs of data.**

Preamble
--------

Gqrx has an internal function for audio recording but it records even if there is no signal in input, with the effect of consuming a lot of disk space for junk data.

Usage and Options
-----------------

***Usage:***

```
usage: java SDRecord
 -d <arg>   Remote port, to use with -r option
 -f <arg>   Output file where to save the recording
 -h         Help
 -l <arg>   Bind to a specific local address, default is 0.0.0.0
 -m <arg>   Minutes to record, default is no limit
 -p <arg>   Local port to use, default is 7355
 -r <arg>   Remote address where to send data
 -s <arg>   Stop recording when reaching specified MBs

```
**NOTE: When is not specified an output file or a remote host, data is written on stdout.**

Putting all together
--------------------

1) Download and compile the java code: ```andrea@Workstation:~/Downloads/SDRecord-master$javac SDRecord.java```

2) Launch Gqrx enabling stream audio over UDP (default port 7355)

3) In a terminal window, launch SDRecord: ```andrea@Workstation:~/Downloads/SDRecord-master$java SDRecord OPTIONS```

4) You can listen the recorded conversations with a line of code like this: ``` aplay -r 48k -f S16_LE -t raw -c 1 < audiofile```

## Examples

Recording in a file:
```bash
andrea@Workstation:~/Downloads/SDRecord-master$ java SDRecord -f audiofile
Listening /0.0.0.0 on port 7355
345.9 KB transferred	 Press Ctrl+c to terminate
```
Recording in a file and sending data to a remote host:
```bash
andrea@Workstation:~/Downloads/SDRecord-master$ java SDRecord -f audiofile -r 192.168.1.105 -d 7356
Listening /0.0.0.0 on port 7355
345.9 KB transferred	 Press Ctrl+c to terminate
```
Recording for 30 minutes and sending max 50 MB of data to a remote host:
```bash
andrea@Workstation:~/Downloads/SDRecord-master$ java SDRecord -m 30 -s 50 -r 192.168.1.105 -d 7356
Listening /0.0.0.0 on port 7355
345.9 KB transferred	 Press Ctrl+c to terminate
```

License and Donations
-------

Written by Andrea 'cybernova' Dari and licensed under GNU GPL v2.0

If you have found this tool useful I gladly accept donations, also symbolic through Paypal:

<a href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&business=andreadari91%40gmail%2ecom&lc=IT&item_name=Andrea%20Dari%20IT%20independent%20researcher&currency_code=EUR&bn=PP%2dDonationsBF%3abtn_donateCC_LG%2egif%3aNonHostedGuest"><img src="https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_US/i/btn/btn_donate_LG.gif" alt="[paypal]" /></a> or Bitcoin: 1B2KqKm4CgzRfSsXv7VmbmXD9XNQzzLaTW

Commit message:

updated readme for the new option

README.md, after:

SDRecord
====

Tool for audio recording with SDR, tested to work with Gqrx: https://github.com/csete/gqrx

It can also be used with others SDR software that send packets with streaming audio over UDP.

SDRecord drops UDP packets coming from Gqrx that do not contain any relevant data ( data payload is 0 ) and sends in output ( on stdout or to a file and/or to a remote host ) only packets containing info.

**Thus this audio recorder is able to reduce network traffic, disk space needed for records and in plus can record for X specified minutes and/or for X specified MBs of data.**

Preamble
--------

Gqrx has an internal function for audio recording but it records even if there is no signal in input, with the effect of consuming a lot of disk space for junk data.

Usage and Options
-----------------

***Usage:***

```
usage: java SDRecord
 -d <arg>   Remote port, to use with -r option
 -f <arg>   Output file where to save the recording
 -h         Help
 -l <arg>   Bind to a specific local address, default is 0.0.0.0
 -m <arg>   Minutes to record, default is no limit
 -p <arg>   Local port to use, default is 7355
 -r <arg>   Remote address where to send data
 -s <arg>   Stop recording when reaching specified MBs
 -sf        Split recording file on each squelch (used with -f option, every filename will be timestamped).

```
**NOTE: When is not specified an output file or a remote host, data is written on stdout.**

Putting all together
--------------------

1) Download and compile the java code: ```andrea@Workstation:~/Downloads/SDRecord-master$javac SDRecord.java```

2) Launch Gqrx enabling stream audio over UDP (default port 7355)

3) In a terminal window, launch SDRecord: ```andrea@Workstation:~/Downloads/SDRecord-master$java SDRecord OPTIONS```

4) You can listen the recorded conversations with a line of code like this: ``` aplay -r 48k -f S16_LE -t raw -c 1 < audiofile```

## Splitting recording into different files

It is useful to have all recorded session in each own different file. Using the -sf option will split sessions and timestamp the files. A new file is created after 3 seconds of silence. Raw audio can be encoded with lame, mencoder, ffmpeg or similar tool. See the provided script encode.sh for example how to mass encode all raw files with lame.

## Examples

Recording in a file:
```bash
andrea@Workstation:~/Downloads/SDRecord-master$ java SDRecord -f audiofile
Listening /0.0.0.0 on port 7355
345.9 KB transferred	 Press Ctrl+c to terminate
```
Recording in a file and sending data to a remote host:
```bash
andrea@Workstation:~/Downloads/SDRecord-master$ java SDRecord -f audiofile -r 192.168.1.105 -d 7356
Listening /0.0.0.0 on port 7355
345.9 KB transferred	 Press Ctrl+c to terminate
```
Recording for 30 minutes and sending max 50 MB of data to a remote host:
```bash
andrea@Workstation:~/Downloads/SDRecord-master$ java SDRecord -m 30 -s 50 -r 192.168.1.105 -d 7356
Listening /0.0.0.0 on port 7355
345.9 KB transferred	 Press Ctrl+c to terminate
```

License and Donations
-------

Written by Andrea 'cybernova' Dari and licensed under GNU GPL v2.0

If you have found this tool useful I gladly accept donations, also symbolic through Paypal:

<a href="https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_donations&business=andreadari91%40gmail%2ecom&lc=IT&item_name=Andrea%20Dari%20IT%20independent%20researcher&currency_code=EUR&bn=PP%2dDonationsBF%3abtn_donateCC_LG%2egif%3aNonHostedGuest"><img src="https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_US/i/btn/btn_donate_LG.gif" alt="[paypal]" /></a> or Bitcoin: 1B2KqKm4CgzRfSsXv7VmbmXD9XNQzzLaTW
